---
layout: post
title: "A problem"
description: ""
category: 
tags: []
---
{% include JB/setup %}

Jaggery is a server side framework developed at [WSO2](http://wso2.com/) and released to the wild as a open source project.It hopes to provide an accessible 
platform for developers to create apps on top of WSO2 carbon.


As more and more products at WSO2 are developed on top of Jaggery, the need for structured micro frameworks that leverage the capabilities of
Jaggery for specific domains become more apparent.One such problem is the need to share common application elements between apps.The next few blog posts will
attempt to chronicle this problem from initial analysis to hopefully a solution :)

I'll be rounding out this post with a small overview of behometh we are attempting to tackle.

###A problem
Most of the products that utilize [Jaggery](http://jaggeryjs.org/) evolved with the framework.This was awesome for [Jaggery](http://jaggeryjs.org/) as it allowed
it to evolve in response to the needs of its user base.However, this was not so awesome for the applications as it caused teams to develop their
own way of addressing problems.This has resulted in :

1. A bunch of different solutions (or stuff :D )for handling the same problem
2. None of the solutions (stuff) being compatible with each other
3. A learning curve when developing  for applications from one product to another
4. No reuse of stuff between applications! :(

For the sake of brevity,[Jaggery](http://jaggeryjs.org/) has the concept of modules, in many ways similar to Node modules.A module in [Jaggery](http://jaggeryjs.org/)has traditionally been about sharing logic.What we need to reuse goes beyond a bunch of scripts.

### Our Goals

1. **Reduce repitition in the stuff that we build**.This will not only reduce the work that individual application teams have to tackle but make sure the stuff that we build gets more love from more people
2. **Move towards a "One ring to rule them all" approach**.Regardless of the menacing overtones, the point here is to make sure all applications follow a similar approach and structure with a set of well documented and well tested stuff. In the long run this will reduce the learning curve when moving from one application to another and a single point for bug fixes.

###What  do we need to reuse?

1. Server side Javascript 
2. HTML
3. CSS
4. Client side Javascript
5. Images
6. Fonts
7. Icons
8. Ducks :p

You get the point! what we need to reuse could be anything developed by a product team that has some semblance of value to another group within the organization.To drive the point home further almost all products have a footer that gives the links to WSO2 documentation and the company site.How awesome would it be if all product teams could just plug this feature in to their product? For one thing it would save the hassale of updating it every year.

###How do we need to reuse stuff?
1. The app teams should have a plug and play approach when it comes to building apps.The reusable stuff will need to just work with zero configuration
2. The final clients of the product should be able to brand the app  

###Hold your horses!, we have restrictions
1. **Cannot rewrite all apps from the ground up **. It is unfair to expect teams to rewrite large swarthes of their code base.
2. **Reuse must occur incrementally **. 

###Alternatives
Oddly enough this problem has been addressed for several years in [WSO2](http://wso2.com/) management consoles.If your wondering what a *management console* is, start up a WSO2 product and navigate to [https://localhost:9443/admin](https://localhost:9443/admin). Across the WSO2 product family this UI maintains a consistent look and feel thanks to the Carbon UI framework.







